Q1. Explain how to design a simulation experiment.
Answer:

A simulation experiment is a test in which meaningful
changes are made to the input variables of a simulation
model so that we may observe and identify the reasons for
changes in the performance measures.
The number of experiments in a simulation study is greater
than or equal to the number of questions being asked about
the model.

The following steps illustrate the process of designing a
simulation experiment.
Step 1: Select appropriate experimental design. Choose a
performance measure, a few input variables that are likely
to influence it, and the levels of each.
Step 2: Establish experimental conditions for runs. Address
the question of obtaining accurate information and the
most information from each run. Determine if the system is
stationary or non-stationary. Decide the number of
independent runs.
Step 3: Perform simulation runs. Perform runs according to
steps 1-2 above.

Q2. Summarize how to perform simulation analysis.
Answer –

Following are the steps to perform simulation analysis: -
Step 1: Prepare a problem statement.
Step 2: For the simulation process, select input variables
and create entities. Decision variables and uncontrolled
variables are the two sorts of variables. The programmer
has control over decision variables, whereas random
variables are uncontrollable.

Step 3: Assign the decision variables to the simulation
process to create limits on them.
Step 4: Determine the variables that will be output.
Step 5: Gather information from the real-world system to
use in the simulation.

Step 6: Create a flowchart that depicts the simulation's
development.
Step 7: To run the model, select an appropriate simulation
software.

Step 8: Check the simulation model's results against the
real-time system.
Step 9: Experiment with the model to discover the
optimum solution by adjusting the variable values.

Step 10: Finally, implement the results into the real-time
system.
Q3. What makes a problem suitable for simulation
modelling and analysis?
Answer –

The following are examples of instances when simulation
modelling and analysis are used:
1. It is impossible or extremely expensive to observe
certain processes in the real world. E.g. – Launch of a
rocket.

2. Problems in which mathematical model can be
formulated but analytic solutions are either impossible
(e.g. high order difference equations) or too
complicated (e.g. complex systems like the stock
market).
3. It is impossible or extremely expensive to validate the
mathematical model describing the system
4. Some examples include Government, defence,
computer and communication systems,
manufacturing, air traffic control, epidemiology,
services

Q4. List some pitfalls to guard against in simulation.
Answer –

From modelling to output analysis, simulation can be a
time- consuming and complex process that requires the
participation of local experts and decision-makers
throughout.
Following is a list of pitfalls to guard against: -
1. Model isn't valid.

2. The simulation model is either too complicated or too
simplistic.
3. Assumptions that are incorrect.
4. Using the wrong input probability distribution.
5. Using the wrong performance measure.
6. The simulation programme has bugs.
7. Using standard statistical formulas that assume
independence in simulation output analysis.
8. Initial bias in output data.

Q5. Outline the benefits of simulation modelling and
analysis.
Answer –

Some benefits of simulation modelling and analysis are:
Obtain a better understanding of the system by
developing a mathematical model of a system of
interest, and observing the system's operation in detail
over long periods of time.
Test hypotheses about the system for feasibility.
Compress time to observe certain phenomena over
long periods or expand time to observe a complex
phenomenon in detail.
Study the effects of certain informational,
organizational, environmental and policy changes on
the operation of a system by altering the system's
model; this can be done without disrupting the real
system and significantly reduces the risk of
experimenting with the real system.
Experiment with new or unknown situations about
which only weak information is available.
Identify bottlenecks in the flow of entities (material,
people, etc.) or information.
Use multiple performance metrics for analysing
system configurations.